---
id: admin-deps
title: Dependencies
sidebar_label: Dependencies
---

Replicante attempts to limit the number of required dependencies to avoid management overhead.
On the other hand it is unwise to re-implement complex systems (such as databases) if there is no need.

In order to run, replicante requires the following:

  * A storage layer.
  * A distributed coordinator (not needed yet).
  * An event streaming platform (not needed yet).

**Note**: while the distributed coordinator and event streaming platform are not needed in the
first release, they are mentioned because they will be required from the next release.
If you are assessing your ability to manage an installation you should account for them.


## Storage layer
Used to persist the information collected from agents, generated metadata, and any other permanent
data that is required by replicante to implement its features.

Supported systems:

  * [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) (recommended)


## Distributed coordinator
Replcante (will) support high availability, machine failure tolerance, and horizontal scaling.
To achieve all this replicante runs multiple instances of the same process on different machines (or VMs).

The coordinator is a component (itself also highly available) that allows the coordination of work
distributed across all processes as well as the re-distribution of work assigned to failed processes.

Supported systems:

  * [Zookeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org/) (recommended)


## Event streaming platform
Events generated by replicante are emitted onto a streaming platform.
This provides two advantages:

  1. Replicante has a reliable event bus as the base for an event driven architecture.
  2. Other tools can process emitted events to implement extra features and integrations.

Supported systems:

  * [Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/) (recommended)


## Optional dependencies
Some features rely on additional runtime dependencies.
To keep the set of required dependencies to a minimum these features must be enabled explicitly.

The needed systems and configuration details are documented within the features that need them.
