---
id: upgrades-fresh
title: Breaking Upgrades
sidebar_label: Breaking Upgrades
---

In rare cases, an in-place update is not possible.
This is true for unusually large or complex to the fundamental functioning of the system.

It may also come a time where operators may wish to replace one of Replicante's
dependencies in a way that prevents a gradual rollout.
This process can be used for that too.

<blockquote class="danger">

More then one replicante cluster **must** not be managing the same datastore or
actions generated by the different replicante clusters may cause conflicts or issues.

</blockquote>

<blockquote class="warning">

During the initial phases of development, large breaking changes are needed more frequently.
Supporting the full gradual release process while the system is evolving this fast
is also very costly.

</blockquote>


  1. Read the [upgrade notes](upgrades-notes.md) for any special consideration for the version you are upgrading to.
  2. Install and configure a new set of dependencies, with any desired change.
  3. Install and configure a new Replicante Core cluster on top of them (see the [install](admin-install.md) section).
  4. Remove all configured `discovery` backends.
  5. Start the `replicante` processes on the new cluster.
  6. For each `discovery` backend (or for groups of backends) configured on the existing cluster:
     1. Remove the backend (or group of backends) from the existing cluster.
     2. Rolling-restart all processes to prevent the existing replicante cluster for managing nodes.
     3. Add the backend (or group of backends) to the new cluster.
     4. Rolling-restart all processes to ensure the new cluster starts managing the nodes.
  7. Once access to historic data is no long needed, delete the initial replicante cluster.

<blockquote class="warning">

The process described above works because current data is either generated
by the system or is historical data collected over time.

This will change once organisations are introduced and dynamic user content will be stored.
When that happens, this process will be updated to support transfering user data across instances.

</blockquote>
